how can you tell
qrp after all HF is fairly forgiving and
even with a poor antenna you can still
get contacts signal reports are one
guide but they're not that accurate
especially during contests or crip DX
context where that invariably 5 a 9 even
though they might ask will repeat
several times I'll give a few tips
especially on bands like 20 meters the
antenna that the other guy is using is a
good guide if all the stations you're
working are using 6 element Yogi's on 30
or 40 meter masses then that must mean
your signal is pretty weak and only the
top stations can hear you on the other
hand though if you're starting to work
people with tribe Anders or better still
dipoles and verticals then you know your
signal must be fairly effective also
gratifying just after you finish a long
haul DX contact is if other stations
from that part of the world also call
you a sure sign your first contact
wasn't a fluke and the DX feat can be
repeated another tip is to call CQ if
your signal is buried in noise few
people will respond if people come back
to your CQ calls then that's a sure sign
that your signal is better than average
for a qrp station then there's the
reverse beacon Network on CW if you're
not expecting to get people to come back
to your calls it's definitely worthwhile
to put out a few because you never know
a reverse beacon Network station may be
listening I should point out though that
reverse beacon network stations vary in
their sensitivity and local noise
there's a lot of times for instance that
I've worked Europe to all the states on
qrp SSB but I've put out calls on CW and
none of the reverse be considerations
have picked me up though bear in mind
there are BN receiving stations vary a
lot in their local noise receiving
antenna it may only be a dipole or
vertical there are a lot of times where
I can get QR p DX contacts on SSB to
Europe and America but there are no
reverse speaker networks
stations in those countries that pick up
my signal if I call CQ on CW although I
do find that nearer rpm stations such as
3000 kilometers away in New Zealand are
fairly reliable and can hear me just
about any time I call on veins like 20
meters another clue is the strength of
stations that you contact if they're
fairly strong it must mean there's a
good path although using good antennas
if they're fairly weak you can try
calling them no harm trying but you
probably won't work them but if your
station is really effective then you
will start to work some of the weaker
signals then there's two by qrp contacts
that's pretty easy
over a thousand kilometres on 40 meters
or 3,000 kilometers on 20 motors and the
higher bands but over real DX like
fifteen or sixteen thousand kilometres
then to make you RP contacts are fairly
rare especially if both ends are using
simple antennas it's even more of a
credit if they're using homebrew gear
particularly regenerative or direct
conversion receivers whose sensitivity
might not be so good another tip is if
people ask about your in town another
sign that you're doing well the behavior
of other stations counts if they ask for
a repeat that's a sure sign that they're
really struggling even if they give you
a five nine later on and when you do
call stations always repeat your
callsign that's the only piece of
information and the most important leave
out stuff like whether you're qrp your
name or your qdh until they've confirmed
your callsign but the best sign is if
people don't believe you especially if
they introduce and say you can't
possibly be qrp that must mean your
signal is super strong definitely save
that location and antenna for future qrp
excursions